README.md, before:

# WebFetch

```
Better all together than just one at a time
                               --Nickelback
```

## Overview

WebFetch executes concurrent, asynchronous HTTP requests. It is itself an HTTP server implementing a RESTful API, wrapped by a Ruby client interface. Instead of returning a response, WebFetch immediately returns a *promise* which can be redeemed later when the response has been processed.

This permits issuing multiple HTTP requests in parallel, in a fully encapsulated and external process, without having to resort to multi-threading, multi-processing, or complex non-blocking IO implementations. [EventMachine][1] is used to handle the heavy lifting.

![WebFetch architecture][2]

## Getting Started

In your `Gemfile`, add:

``` ruby
gem 'web_fetch'
```

and update your bundle:

``` ruby
bundle install
```

Require WebFetch in your application:

``` ruby
require 'web_fetch'
```

### Memcached

It is highly recommended to use _Memcached_ as a back end to _WebFetch_ in production.

The following environment variables can be used to select and configure the back end:

```bash
WEB_FETCH_BACK_END=memcached
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_HOST=localhost
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_PORT=11211
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_TTL=60
```

Note that _WebFetch_ is intended to function as a fast proxy server so a low TTL (default 60 seconds) is recommended. With a _Memcached_ back end multiple instances of _WebFetch_ can operate on the same memory store. This provides good options for containerisation, scaling, and high availability.

### Launch or connect to a server

Launch the server from your application (recommended for familiarising yourself with WebFetch):

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.create('localhost', 8077)
```

Or connect to an existing WebFetch server (recommended for production systems - see [below](#process-management) for more details):

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
```

### Create a request

Create a WebFetch request. Note that the request will not begin until the next step:

``` ruby
request = WebFetch::Request.new do |req|
  req.url = 'http://foobar.baz'
  req.headers = { 'User-Agent' => 'Foo Browser' }
  req.query = { foobar: 'baz' }
  req.method = :get
  req.body = 'foo bar baz'
  req.custom = { my_id: '123' }
end
```

Only `url` is required. The default HTTP method is `GET`.

Anything assigned to `custom` will be returned with the final response (available by calling `#custom` on the response). This may be useful if you need to tag each request with your own custom identifier, for example. Anything you assign here will have no bearing whatsoever on the HTTP request.

If you prefer to build a request from a hash, you can call `WebFetch::Request.from_hash`

``` ruby
request = WebFetch::Request.from_hash(
  url: 'http://foobar.baz',
  headers: { 'User-Agent' => 'Foo Browser' },
  query: { foobar: 'baz' },
  method: :get,
  body: 'foo bar baz',
  custom: { my_id: '123' }
)
```

### Gather responses

Ask WebFetch to begin gathering your HTTP requests in the background:

``` ruby
promises = client.gather([request])
```

`WebFetch::Client#gather` accepts an array of `WebFetch::Request` objects and immediately returns an array of `WebFetch::Promise` objects. WebFetch will process all requests in the background concurrently.

To retrieve the response of a request, call `WebFetch::Promise#fetch`

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch

# Available methods:
response.body
response.headers
response.status # HTTP status code
response.success? # False if a network error (not HTTP error) occurred
response.error # Underlying network error if applicable
response.response_time
response.request # The original request, provided as a `WebFetch::Request` object
```

Note that `WebFetch::Promise#fetch` will block until the response is complete by default. If you want to continue executing other code if the response is not ready (e.g. to see if any other responses are ready), you can pass `wait: false`

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch(wait: false)
```

If the response has not yet returned, `response.pending?` will be `true`.

Alternatively, you can call `WebFetch::Promise#complete?` to check if a request has finished before waiting for the response:

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch if promises.first.complete?
```

### Fetching responses later

In some cases you may need to fetch the response of a request in a different context to which you initiated it. A unique ID is available for each *Promise* which can be used to fetch the response from a separate *Client* instance:

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
promises = client.gather([
  WebFetch::Request.new { |req| req.url = 'http://foobar.com' }
])
uid = promises.first.uid

# Later ...
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
response = client.fetch(uid)
```

This can be useful if your web application initiates requests in one controller action and fetches them in another; the `uid` can be stored in a database and used to fetch the request later on.

### Stopping the server

When you have finished using the web server, call `WebFetch::Client#stop`

``` ruby
client.stop
```

The server will not automatically stop when your program exits.

## Examples

[Runnable examples][5] are provided for more detailed usage.

## HTTP API

If you need to use the WebFetch server's HTTP API directly refer to the [Swagger API Reference][6]

## Managing the WebFetch process yourself <a name='process-management'></a>

For production systems it is advised that you run the WebFetch server separately rather than instantiate it via the client. For this case, the executable `bin/web_fetch_control` is provided. Daemonisation is handled by the [daemons][7] gem.

WebFetch can be started in the terminal with output going to STDOUT or as a daemon.

Run the server as a daemon:

```
$ web_fetch_control start
```

Run the server in the terminal:

```
$ web_fetch_control run
```

Stop the server:

```
$ web_fetch_control stop
```

To pass options to WebFetch, pass `--` to `web_fetch_control` and add all WebFetch options afterwards.

Available options:

```
--port 60087
--host localhost
--pidfile /tmp/web_fetch.pid
--log /var/log/web_fetch.log
```

e.g.:

```
web_fetch_control run -- --port 8000 --host 0.0.0.0
```

No pid file will be created unless the `--pidfile` parameter is passed. It is recommended to use a process monitoring tool (e.g. `monit` or `systemd`) to monitor the WebFetch process.

## Docker

To use WebFetch in Docker you can either use the provided [`Dockerfile`](docker/Dockerfile) or the public image [`web_fetch/web_fetch`](https://hub.docker.com/r/webfetch/webfetch/)

## Contributing

WebFetch uses `rspec` for testing:

```
bin/rspec
```

Rubocop is used for code style governance:

```
bin/rubocop
```

Make sure that any new code you write has an appropriate test and that all Rubocop checks pass.

Feel free to fork and create a pull request if you would like to make any changes.

## License

WebFetch is licensed under the [MIT License][8]. You are encouraged to re-use the code in any way you see fit as long as you give credit to the original author. If you do use the code for any other projects then feel free to let me know but, of course, this is not required.

[1]: https://github.com/eventmachine/eventmachine
[2]: doc/web_fetch_architecture.png
[3]: https://github.com/lostisland/faraday
[4]: lib/web_fetch/client.rb
[5]: doc/examples/
[6]: swagger.yaml
[7]: https://github.com/thuehlinger/daemons
[8]: LICENSE

Commit message:

Add Redis documentation to Readme

README.md, after:

# WebFetch

```
Better all together than just one at a time
                               --Nickelback
```

## Overview

WebFetch executes concurrent, asynchronous HTTP requests. It is itself an HTTP server implementing a RESTful API, wrapped by a Ruby client interface. Instead of returning a response, WebFetch immediately returns a *promise* which can be redeemed later when the response has been processed.

This permits issuing multiple HTTP requests in parallel, in a fully encapsulated and external process, without having to resort to multi-threading, multi-processing, or complex non-blocking IO implementations. [EventMachine][1] is used to handle the heavy lifting.

![WebFetch architecture][2]

## Getting Started

In your `Gemfile`, add:

``` ruby
gem 'web_fetch'
```

and update your bundle:

``` ruby
bundle install
```

Require WebFetch in your application:

``` ruby
require 'web_fetch'
```

### Memcached

It is highly recommended to use _Memcached_ or _Redis_ as a back end to _WebFetch_ in production.

The following environment variables can be used to select and configure the back end:

```bash
# Memcached
WEB_FETCH_BACK_END=memcached
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_HOST=localhost
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_PORT=11211
WEB_FETCH_MEMCACHED_TTL=60

# Redis
WEB_FETCH_BACK_END=redis
WEB_FETCH_REDIS_HOST=localhost
WEB_FETCH_REDIS_PORT=6379
WEB_FETCH_REDIS_TTL=60
```

Note that _WebFetch_ is intended to function as a fast proxy server so a low TTL (default 60 seconds) is recommended. With a _Memcached_ back end multiple instances of _WebFetch_ can operate on the same memory store. This provides good options for containerisation, scaling, and high availability.

### Launch or connect to a server

Launch the server from your application (recommended for familiarising yourself with WebFetch):

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.create('localhost', 8077)
```

Or connect to an existing WebFetch server (recommended for production systems - see [below](#process-management) for more details):

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
```

### Create a request

Create a WebFetch request. Note that the request will not begin until the next step:

``` ruby
request = WebFetch::Request.new do |req|
  req.url = 'http://foobar.baz'
  req.headers = { 'User-Agent' => 'Foo Browser' }
  req.query = { foobar: 'baz' }
  req.method = :get
  req.body = 'foo bar baz'
  req.custom = { my_id: '123' }
end
```

Only `url` is required. The default HTTP method is `GET`.

Anything assigned to `custom` will be returned with the final response (available by calling `#custom` on the response). This may be useful if you need to tag each request with your own custom identifier, for example. Anything you assign here will have no bearing whatsoever on the HTTP request.

If you prefer to build a request from a hash, you can call `WebFetch::Request.from_hash`

``` ruby
request = WebFetch::Request.from_hash(
  url: 'http://foobar.baz',
  headers: { 'User-Agent' => 'Foo Browser' },
  query: { foobar: 'baz' },
  method: :get,
  body: 'foo bar baz',
  custom: { my_id: '123' }
)
```

### Gather responses

Ask WebFetch to begin gathering your HTTP requests in the background:

``` ruby
promises = client.gather([request])
```

`WebFetch::Client#gather` accepts an array of `WebFetch::Request` objects and immediately returns an array of `WebFetch::Promise` objects. WebFetch will process all requests in the background concurrently.

To retrieve the response of a request, call `WebFetch::Promise#fetch`

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch

# Available methods:
response.body
response.headers
response.status # HTTP status code
response.success? # False if a network error (not HTTP error) occurred
response.error # Underlying network error if applicable
response.response_time
response.request # The original request, provided as a `WebFetch::Request` object
```

Note that `WebFetch::Promise#fetch` will block until the response is complete by default. If you want to continue executing other code if the response is not ready (e.g. to see if any other responses are ready), you can pass `wait: false`

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch(wait: false)
```

If the response has not yet returned, `response.pending?` will be `true`.

Alternatively, you can call `WebFetch::Promise#complete?` to check if a request has finished before waiting for the response:

``` ruby
response = promises.first.fetch if promises.first.complete?
```

### Fetching responses later

In some cases you may need to fetch the response of a request in a different context to which you initiated it. A unique ID is available for each *Promise* which can be used to fetch the response from a separate *Client* instance:

``` ruby
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
promises = client.gather([
  WebFetch::Request.new { |req| req.url = 'http://foobar.com' }
])
uid = promises.first.uid

# Later ...
client = WebFetch::Client.new('localhost', 8077)
response = client.fetch(uid)
```

This can be useful if your web application initiates requests in one controller action and fetches them in another; the `uid` can be stored in a database and used to fetch the request later on.

### Stopping the server

When you have finished using the web server, call `WebFetch::Client#stop`

``` ruby
client.stop
```

The server will not automatically stop when your program exits.

## Examples

[Runnable examples][5] are provided for more detailed usage.

## HTTP API

If you need to use the WebFetch server's HTTP API directly refer to the [Swagger API Reference][6]

## Managing the WebFetch process yourself <a name='process-management'></a>

For production systems it is advised that you run the WebFetch server separately rather than instantiate it via the client. For this case, the executable `bin/web_fetch_control` is provided. Daemonisation is handled by the [daemons][7] gem.

WebFetch can be started in the terminal with output going to STDOUT or as a daemon.

Run the server as a daemon:

```
$ web_fetch_control start
```

Run the server in the terminal:

```
$ web_fetch_control run
```

Stop the server:

```
$ web_fetch_control stop
```

To pass options to WebFetch, pass `--` to `web_fetch_control` and add all WebFetch options afterwards.

Available options:

```
--port 60087
--host localhost
--pidfile /tmp/web_fetch.pid
--log /var/log/web_fetch.log
```

e.g.:

```
web_fetch_control run -- --port 8000 --host 0.0.0.0
```

No pid file will be created unless the `--pidfile` parameter is passed. It is recommended to use a process monitoring tool (e.g. `monit` or `systemd`) to monitor the WebFetch process.

## Docker

To use WebFetch in Docker you can either use the provided [`Dockerfile`](docker/Dockerfile) or the public image [`web_fetch/web_fetch`](https://hub.docker.com/r/webfetch/webfetch/)

## Contributing

WebFetch uses `rspec` for testing:

```
bin/rspec
```

Rubocop is used for code style governance:

```
bin/rubocop
```

Make sure that any new code you write has an appropriate test and that all Rubocop checks pass.

Feel free to fork and create a pull request if you would like to make any changes.

## License

WebFetch is licensed under the [MIT License][8]. You are encouraged to re-use the code in any way you see fit as long as you give credit to the original author. If you do use the code for any other projects then feel free to let me know but, of course, this is not required.

[1]: https://github.com/eventmachine/eventmachine
[2]: doc/web_fetch_architecture.png
[3]: https://github.com/lostisland/faraday
[4]: lib/web_fetch/client.rb
[5]: doc/examples/
[6]: swagger.yaml
[7]: https://github.com/thuehlinger/daemons
[8]: LICENSE
